1) [2 Marks]
	Command to init the database: /usr/sbin/tripwire --init
	Command to run a check: /usr/sbin/tripwire --check
	Command to get a report: /usr/sbin/twprint -m r --twrfile /var/lib/tripwire/report/ubuntu804Server-20201031-173656.twr
	Place the report in twreport1.txt

2a) [5 Marks] Document the steps you took to 'take the drive out of the Ubuntu804_owasp VM and place it in the Kali VM'. 
	1) First shutdown the Ubuntu804_owasp vm.

	2) Remove the drive from the Ubuntu804_owasp VM
        	To do this in the VM:
            		- On the top click "VM" and then click "Settings..."
            		- In the new window that opened, click on "Hard Disk (SCSI)"
            		- click the "Remove" button at the bottom of the window and then press OK

 	3) Attach the Ubuntu804_osap drive to the Kali VM.
          	To do this in the VM:
            		- Open the kali VM in another window (but do not power it on)
		        - On the top click "VM" and then click "Settings..."
		        - In the new window that opened up, click the button that says "Add..." near the bottom left
            		- Click Hard Disk then click next
            		- Pick SCSI disk type and then click next
            		- Pick "Use an existing virtual disk" then click next
            		- Click "Browse" and go to the folder where Ubuntu804Server_owasp is stored on your computer
            		- Open the Ubuntu virtual disk (Ubuntu.vmdk)
            		- Click "Finish" and then click "Keep Existing Format"
            		- Click "OK" at the bottom right

  	4) Power on Kali VM. It now has access to its original drive as well as the drive from the Ubuntu804_owasp VM



2b) [3 Marks] Copy the shadow file to the Kali VM and see if you 
    can determine some of the passwords using John the ripper. 

	PLACE john the ripper results below. 

	Created directory: /root/.john
  	Warning: detected hash type "md5crypt", but the string is also recognized as "md5crypt-long"
  	Use the "--format=md5crypt-long" option to force loading these as that type instead
  	Using default input encoding: UTF-8
  	Loaded 5 password hashes with 5 different salts (md5crypt, crypt(3) $1$ (and variants) [MD5 128/128 XOP 4x2])
  	Will run 4 OpenMP threads
  	Proceeding with single, rules:Single
  	Press 'q' or Ctrl-C to abort, almost any other key for status
  	Warning: Only 26 candidates buffered for the current salt, minimum 32 needed for performance.
  	Warning: Only 27 candidates buffered for the current salt, minimum 32 needed for performance.
  	joeeoj           (joe)
  	Warning: Only 20 candidates buffered for the current salt, minimum 32 needed for performance.
  	Warning: Only 23 candidates buffered for the current salt, minimum 32 needed for performance.
  	Warning: Only 5 candidates buffered for the current salt, minimum 32 needed for performance.
  	Warning: Only 19 candidates buffered for the current salt, minimum 32 needed for performance.
  	Warning: Only 29 candidates buffered for the current salt, minimum 32 needed for performance.
  	Almost done: Processing the remaining buffered candidate passwords, if any.
  	Warning: Only 2 candidates buffered for the current salt, minimum 32 needed for performance.
  	Warning: Only 22 candidates buffered for the current salt, minimum 32 needed for performance.
  	Warning: Only 28 candidates buffered for the current salt, minimum 32 needed for performance.
  	Further messages of this type will be suppressed.
  	To see less of these warnings, enable 'RelaxKPCWarningCheck' in john.conf
  	Proceeding with wordlist:/usr/share/john/password.lst, rules:Wordlist
  	password         (arnold)
  	Proceeding with incremental:ASCII

		

ARNOLD : Wait as long as you think is reasonable, then report your results, 
         including which passwords were not broken and whether you feel that they are secure enough. Why do you believe they are secure?

2c) [2 Marks] Modify user sid so that they are now a root user with password 'password'. 

	EXPLAIN HOW YOU DO THIS AND PLACE MODIFIED FILES ETC IN THIS DIRECTORY
	
	- First I edited the /etc/passwd file in the Ubuntu804_owasp drive and changed 
	  the UID of sid to 0 and group of sid to 0 as well to make it a root user and root group
	
	- Next, from the results of John the Ripper, we know that the user arnold has 'password' as his password. 
	  Using this information, I can go to the /etc/shadow drive in the Ubuntu804_owasp vm and copy the hash and the salt from  
	  arnold's account and replace the hash + salt for sid with this. Now sid will have the password 'password'.
	  

2d) NOTHING TO REPORT HERE

3a) [2 Marks] Place the result of running tripwire in twreport2.txt. 
	Identify anything interesting below.
	- In the tripwire report we can see that modification have been made to several files. We can see specifically /etc/passwd and /etc/shadow has been modified 

3b) [4 Marks] 
	last # this is a command

		WHAT DID YOU LEARN
		
		This shows a log of who logged in the system and what date and time. We can see that sid logged in before we logged in.
	uptime # this is a command

		WHAT DID YOU LEARN
	This shows us how many users are logged in to the server, as well as how long the server has been online

	/var/log/* # these are log files

		WHAT DID YOU LEARN
	Here there are lots of log files you can go through. For example looking at auth.log we see who logged in and when they logged out.

	.bash_history # what is this, whos should you look at and why are you looking?

		WHAT DID YOU LEARN
		- This shows us the a history of commands that were run from this account. 
		In general after we get a suspicious tripwire report we should examine all the accounts that logged in between the last report and the new suspicous report.
		We should look at sids bash history as we suspect that this account has been compromised. 
		We are looking to determine exactly what the user has done on the system and look for any
		sort of modification/attacks that they could have made to the system so we can begin to fix them

4) [2 Marks] List updates to policy below. 

Updates to policy that we can make is that we can run John the ripper against the account stored in our system and make any users that have an account
that has a password that is easily cracked (such as those that are cracked without John the ripper entering the incremental:ASCII stage, or
are cracked < 1 hr in incremental:ASCII stage) to change their passwords to a more secure one. You should also make sure the server room is locked at 
all times and only authorized individuals are allowed access in. This will make it harder for an attacker to get physical acess to the hard drive.
In order to aid in recovery, a policy should be inacted to ensure that tripwire is frequently and logs are constantly being monitored.
Backups of the server should also be regularly stored in a seperate location from the system. 
This will aid in recovery as if there is a potential breach, it will be detected swiftly
and hopefully before any catastrophic damage is done, and the system can be restored.

5) [2 Marks] Report on what the attacker could have done to leave fewer traces than they did in this attack. 
	What would you do to detect a compromise even in this case? 

	To leave fewer traces the hacker could have ran tripwire again to initialize a new directory after making his changes, or he also could have installed a 
	modified version of tripwire, so when the sysadmin runs tripwire again there would not be reports of any tampering.

	In order to detect a compromise even in this case we should store the tripwire database of your untampered with system in a drive that is seperate
	from the system that we are trying to protect. Then for any checks we want to make, we install a clean version of tripwire 
	(or you can also have an original tripwire application stored in the offline hard drive as well) and run the tripwire check
	using the database in the drive.

